Demonstrations Track
Demonstrations showcase first-hand experience with research prototypes or operational systems. They provide opportunities to exchange ideas gained from implementing IR systems and obtain feedback from the expert search users of SIGIR. Contributions from startups and industry are also welcome. Accepted demonstration submissions will appear in the conference proceedings.

A good demonstration submission should be interesting to the SIGIR audience, and expose people to new problems, tasks, or innovative solutions to existing problems. The demonstration submission should address the following questions: Who is your target user? Why does your system exist and why is it important? What problem is your system trying to address? What does your demonstration do and how does it work? What does it look like? How does it compare with existing systems? Finally, how and when might your technology have an impact, either technically, commercially, or societally?

We especially encourage innovative and creative prototypes attempting to highlight and explore novel problems. Some examples include, but are not limited to:

Novel demonstration of vulnerabilities in existing information systems
Innovative user interfaces and modalities
New use cases of search technology
Novel approaches to information seeking tasks
New methods for more inclusive access to search and information
Examples of new search problems and challenges
Demonstration submissions are welcome in any of the areas related to any aspects of IR. Key criteria for evaluation will be the novelty of a solution and the potential impact on research or practice. Papers on incremental research advances or comparison of existing methods that would be a better fit as a Short Paper submission are discouraged. Submissions that attendees will be able to actively engage with are strongly encouraged.

Important Dates (AoE)
Demo abstract submission: February 5, 2026.
Demo paper submission: February 12, 2026.
Demo notification: April 2, 2026.
Camera-ready submission: April 29, 2026.
Author registration: April 29, 2026.
Submission Guidelines
Submissions of demonstration papers are single-anonymous (that is, contain author names), must be in English, in PDF format, and be at most 4 pages (including figures and appendices) in length + unrestricted space for references. It is the responsibility of the authors to ensure that the PDF submission has been uploaded successfully. We suggest downloading the PDF after submission to check it is ok. Submissions that are over the page limit and incomplete submissions will be rejected without review. Authors should also read and agree to ACM’s authorship policy before making a submission. You are not expected to take measures to conceal your identity from reviewers.

The PDF of your demonstration submission must include either a link a) to a video recording or b) to the online web interface of your system (login details should be specified in your submission if applicable). This is to help reviewers and readers of your demonstration paper intuitively and fully understand your system. Papers without a working link will be desk rejected without review.

Suitable LaTeX, Word, and Overleaf templates for SIGIR are available from the ACM Website (use the sigconf proceedings template).

Authors should note that changes to the author list after the submission deadline are strictly prohibited.

Other Submission Requirements
Submitting to this track indicates your agreement to and compliance with the common ACM and SIGIR 2026 Policies and Requirements. These policies and requirements include (but are not limited to) authorship, ethics, the use of AI, ACM author open access page charges, and at least one author registering for and attending the conference.

Submission System
All papers for this track are to be submitted via EasyChair, selecting “SIGIR 2026 Demonstrations” track:

Submit here

Demonstration Track Chairs
demonstrations@sigir2026.org

Ludovico Boratto
Adam Roegiest